Adapted from: https://basicswithbabish.co/basicsepisodes/pies

Ingredients:


Crust:

10 ounces all-purpose flour
1 tsp kosher salt
2 sticks unsalted butter, frozen
1 beaten egg white
Granulated sugar


Filling:

3 pounds Honey Crisp or Granny Smith apples
Lemon juice
3/4 cup sugar
2-3 Tbsp all-purpose flour
Lemon zest 
Kosher salt
½ tsp freshly grated nutmeg
½ tsp ground ginger
1 tsp cinnamon
Allspice
Ground cloves





COMBINE BUTTER AND FLOUR:

Combine 10 ounces of all-purpose flour with 1 teaspoon of kosher salt and dump it into a food processor using the blade attachment. Pulse a few times to combine. 

Using the grating attachment and allowing it to spin, press two sticks of thoroughly frozen unsalted butter through the feed tube and into the flour mixture. Remove from processor and add mixture to a bowl. Toss to make sure that all of the butter is coated in flour.

Slowly begin to add 1 tablespoon of ice water at a time to the mixture. The amount will depend on many different factors, so continue adding the ice water slowly and mixing the dough together until it just starts to hold its shape. It took about 16 tablespoons for me.

Turn the dough out onto a flat work surface and gently knead it into one cohesive mass. Don’t worry if the dough looks a little dry and crumbly because it will continue to hydrate once it is placed in the fridge. Take a knife and divide the dough into two slices. 

Wrap the dough in plastic and pat it out into a thick round disc so that the dough is easier to roll out later. Place the dough into the fridge and let sit for at least 30 minutes.


PREP FOR BLIND BAKE:

After 30 minutes has passed, the dough should be nice and firm and should look like it has hydrated nicely. In addition, it should be visibly dappled with little bits of butter. Take half of the dough, wrap with plastic, and place it back into the fridge for later. 

On a flat work surface that is covered with flour, and adding flour as needed, roll the dough out to a diameter that is one to two inches wider than the pie plate you intend to use. 

Once the dough is rolled out to your desired specifications, use your rolling pin to lift it up over countertop and transfer it over to your pie plate. 

Instead of pressing the pie dough into the corners, lift and drop it into the corners to avoid stretching the pie dough. Make sure that the dough is generously hanging over the sides of the plate. Place it into the fridge and let sit for 30 minutes. 


BLIND BAKE:

Once 30 minutes has passed, line the pie dough with aluminum foil and fill it with the pie weight of your choice, such as rice. Place in a 400 degree Fahrenheit oven for 12 to 15 minutes until lightly brown. 
Remove the foil and “dock” the crust by poking several little holes in the bottom of the crust using a fork. Place back into the oven for another 7 to 9 minutes until a little more golden brown. 

After the crust is removed from the oven, let it cool for a few minutes before using a fork to poke and deflate any puff ups. Trim off the excess pie dough around the circumference. 



PIE FILLING: 

Peel your apples and cut the apple flesh off of the core and slice into half-inch pieces. Then, place the apples into a large bowl and toss them with a little squeeze of lemon juice to prevent the apples from turning brown.   

In a bowl, combine ¾ cup of sugar, 2 to 3 tablespoons of all-purpose flour, lemon zest, a pinch of kosher salt, ½ teaspoon of freshly grated nutmeg, ½ teaspoon of ground ginger, 1 teaspoon of cinnamon, and a little sprinkling of both allspice and ground cloves. 

Use a tiny whisk and whisk together separately from the apples before pouring the mixture on top of the apples and tossing.Make sure that all of the apples are evenly coated in the mixture. Fill the pre-made pie crust (instructions above) with the apple filling.



TOP CRUST AND FINAL BAKE:

To make the additional layer of crust, roll out the other half of your dough to the same thinness and cover the filling making sure that it is evenly distributed. Trim off any excess dough and tuck it in gently underneath the par baked crust. 

Cut a couple of vents in the top of the dough and brush the entire thing down with a beaten egg white and sprinkle with a few pinches of granulated sugar. 

Place into a 425°F oven for 35 to 50 minutes. Let it cool for at least 4 hours. 


First Attempt:
1) The bottom crust is a little tough. I think it was too thin and I also might have needed to put a little bit less water.
2) Had to just wing it on the filling. Because I didn't have exactly the same amount. But turned out okay. Maybe a little sweeter and less clove
3) Need to butter the bottom of the pan




