Flourless Chocolate Chip Chickpea Blondies with Sea Salt {vegan, gluten-free & healthy}

Secretly healthy chickpea blondies made with chickpeas, peanut butter, pure maple syrup and chocolate. Taste amazingly like peanut butter cookies. Flourless and no butter!
CourseBar, Dessert, Gluten Free, Healthy, Snack, Vegan

Prep Time 5minutes minutes
Cook Time 20minutes minutes
Total Time 25minutes minutes
Servings 16 bars
Calories 120kcal
Author Monique of AmbitiousKitchen.com

Ingredients
Cooking Spray
1 can (15 ounces) chickpeas, rinsed and drained
1/2 cup all natural peanut butter (or almond butter)
1/3 cup pure maple syrup or agave nectar (you can also use honey if you're not vegan)
2 teaspoons vanilla
1/2 tsp salt
1/4 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/3 cup vegan (or regular) chocolate chips plus 2 tablespoons
Coarse sea salt, for sprinkling

Instructions
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F and spray 8x8 inch pan with nonstick cooking spray.

In a food processor, add all ingredients except chocolate chips and process until batter is smooth. 

Fold in 1/3 cup of chocolate chips, I like to use dark chocolate because it has less sugar but it's up to you. Note: Batter will be thick and super delicious, so you could actually just eat it on it's own!

Spread batter evenly in prepared pan then sprinkle 2 tablespoons of chocolate chips on top. (The batter may stick to your spatula, so I like to spray my spatula with nonstick cooking spray first.)

Bake for 20-25 minutes or until toothpick comes out clean and edges are a tiny bit brown. The batter may look underdone, but you don't want them to dry out!

Cool pan for 20 minutes on wire rack. Sprinkle with sea salt then cut into squares. Makes 16 blondies. Store covered in the fridge for up to 3-5 days.

Notes
Adding an egg to the batter will make it more cake-like, but not vegan.
---Jason: 3 tablespoons of the liquid (aquafaba) is equal to an egg.

You can use your favorite nut butter, just make sure it’s all natural.
Feel free to add in other things according to your dietary needs like nuts, dried fruit, or other types of chocolate.
Nutrition
Serving: 1bar | Calories: 120kcal | Carbohydrates: 13.5g | Protein: 3.5g | Fat: 6g | Fiber: 1.8g | Sugar: 6.9g