Round Rock Donuts
(Modified from: https://basicswithbabish.co/basicsepisodes/donuts)


Ingredients

1 cup whole milk
1 tsp granulated sugar (for the yeast)
1 packet active dry yeast
350g all purpose flour
75g white sugar
1 tsp table salt
3 large egg yolks
Additional flour for work surface
Vegetable oil

BLOOM YEAST:: Start by heating some milk in a bowl to 110°F and then add 1 tsp of sugar along with 1 packet of active dry yeast. Stir to combine and set aside for 10 minutes.

COMBINE DRY:: In a large bowl combine 350 grams of all purpose flour with 75 grams of white sugar, and 1 tsp of table salt. Whisk to combine.

ADD WET:: In the same bowl add 3 large egg yolks and the milk and yeast mixture. 

MIX:: Using a wooden spoon or your hands, mix dough together until it forms a large shaggy mass.

KNEAD:: Turn out onto a lightly floured surface and knead for about 8 minutes. Once dough is smooth, add to an oiled bowl, cover,

PROOF 1:: let sit for about an hour or until it’s doubled in size.

ROLL/CUT: Turn dough out onto a floured work surface, pat with a little bit of flour, and then roll out to about ½ inch thickness. Then use a biscuit cutter dusted with flour to cut the dough into donut rounds and place them on a rimmed floured baking sheet.

PROOF 2:: Cover and let rise for 45 minutes.

FRY:: Heat up vegetable oil in a cast iron skillet to 350°F. Add donuts to the oil and cook for about 45 seconds per side.

COOL:: Remove from oil and place on a wire rack to let cool.



---------------------------------------

Classic Donut Glaze:

In a bowl sift 400 grams of powdered sugar along with 2 tsp of corn syrup and ¼ cup of boiling water. Whisk until smooth.


Chocolate Glaze:

Combine 4 ounces of chopped chocolate with ¼ cup of steaming whole milk, a little instant espresso powder, and a couple tablespoons of corn syrup. Whisk to combine.


Vanilla Frosting:

2 tablespoons heavy cream (more if needed)
1 cup confectioners' sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon vanilla extract

Combine heavy cream and confectioners' sugar in a medium-sized bowl. Whisk smooth, adding a touch more cream if the frosting seems too thick; adding a touch more sugar if the frosting seems too thin. Mix in salt and vanilla.


-------------------------------------------------------

First Attempt Notes:

Tried to double the receipe and ended up with very sticky dough.
Accidently dropped a whole egg in, so 1 egg and 5 yolks.
Ended up adding 2 more cups of flour because thought the dough was too runny.
The milk to bloom the yeast should actually be taken from the amount added to reciepe not in addition

Doughnuts tasted like beignets but were a little tough and the crumb wasn't as corse (lots of bubbles). I think I should have tried the stickier dough.
Should actually compare to beignet reciepe

Nathan didn't like the chocolate. Too sticky,  I think if I had made it before frying it would have set up faster.
Espresso mix added notes like dark chocolate. I think it would be better without but mellow the sweetness of a chocolate by actually combining in dark chocoalte to right flavor

The vanilla frosting was awesome but it also did better after setting up. The setup frosting had more of the consistency of the orginal RR donuts. Maybe add corn syurp as well.


--------------------------

Notes for second attempt: Need more gluten to get more air pockets, milk and egg yolks are are enriching agents which impede gluten development. Maybe try it with less egg and even possibly replacing milk with water

Wilco episode did not say milk. So I should replace the milk with water and use whole eggs
