Black-Eyed Peas Recipe

https://www.oliviascuisine.com/wprm_print/26111/

INGREDIENTS  
1 teaspoon olive oil
8 ounces thick bacon, diced
3 ounces smoked sausage (calabresa, kielbasa or andouille), diced
1 medium onion, chopped
4 cloves garlic, minced
1 pound dried black-eyed peas
1 teaspoon Kosher salt, or to taste
½ teaspoon freshly ground black pepper, or to taste
2 bay leaves
5 cups chicken broth (or water)
1 tablespoon tomato paste, optional
⅓ cup chopped fresh parsley
¼ cup chopped scallions

EQUIPMENT
Dutch Oven

INSTRUCTIONS 
Optional: Place the black-eyed peas in a large bowl and add enough cold water to cover them. Soak overnight, then drain and rinse. (see notes)

In a large Dutch Oven or heavy bottomed pot, heat the oil, over medium-high heat. Add the bacon and sausage, and cook until lightly browned, about 5 to 8 minutes.
 
Then, stir in the chopped onion and garlic, cooking until softened and fragrant, about 4 to 5 minutes.

Stir in the black eyed peas, salt, pepper and bay leaves. Pour in the chicken stock and bring to a boil.
Once boiling, lower the heat, cover and simmer for 1 to 1 ½ hours, or until the peas are tender. 

Remove about ½ cup of black-eyed peas and place in a bowl. Smash with a fork, then return the smashed peas to the pot.
Cook on medium until the liquid thickens. Optional: Stir in the tomato paste if you prefer the broth to have a stronger color.

At this point, you can add more liquid if you like saucy black-eyed peas or turn the heat up and wait for the liquid to evaporate, if you prefer them to be dryer.
Discard the bay leaves and stir in the parsley and scallions. Taste for seasoning and adjust as needed.
Serve immediately!


SLOW COOKER:

brown the bacon and sausage, and sauté the aromatics on the stove.

Then, transfer everything to the slow cooker, and add the black-eyed peas, bay leaves, seasonings and broth. 

Cook on low for 6 to 8 hours (or high for 4 to 5 hours), or until the peas are tender.

Smash 1/2 cup of the beans and return to the slow cooker. 

Cover and cook on high for about 30 minutes, or until the broth thickens to the desired consistency.

Then, discard bay leaves, stir in the parsley and scallions, adjust seasoning and serve!