How to Make Crispy Air Fryer Tofu

Here's How to Make Crispy Air Fryer Tofu cooked in just 10 minutes! This tofu is delicious, easy to make and great for meal prep!
Course Dinner, Lunch, SidesCuisine American Prep Time 30minutes minsCook Time 10minutes minsTotal Time 40minutes mins Servings 4 servingsCalories 110Author Jessica Hylton

Ingredients
1 lb block of extra firm tofu, pressed for 30 minutes then cut into 1” cubes (16 oz.)
1 teaspoon garlic powder
½ teaspoon onion powder
1 teaspoon paprika
½ teaspoon sea salt
2 teaspoons cornstarch
½ tablespoon light soy sauce or liquid aminos
½ teaspoon sesame oil or any oil
¼ teaspoon ground black pepper

Instructions

In a medium size bowl place the pressed and cubed tofu. Add in liquid aminos and toss to coat. 
Add in all of the other seasoning ingredients including the oil and toss to thoroughly combine.

Place in your air fryer in a single row, so that all the tofu has a little bit of space around each piece. Set your air fryer to 400°F. Cook for 10 minutes, shaking the basket after 5 minutes, then continuing to cook. 

Remove after tofu is cooked. Allow to cool for a few minutes then serve. Enjoy!

Notes
Notes
(affiliate links) This is my current air fryer that I adore, and the air fryer I had before that I also love! 
Make sure you're not buying silken tofu! That will yield the wrong texture and will break apart if you try and press it. Check out my Tofu 101 post for more.
If you have a smaller air fryer, you’re going to want to split this into two batches because you definitely don’t want your tofu to be crowded. Give them enough space. In my smaller air fryer, I need two batches.
I’m sure all air fryers are different, so be sure to see if your tofu may need an extra 5 minutes. Mine was perfect after 10 minutes!
How to press tofu: I cover this in detail in my How to Cook Tofu 101 post! The prep time includes the time to press the tofu
You can even switch up the seasoning mix. Here are some ideas as to how: 
Italian seasoning with dried parsley, oregano and dried basil
Bbq seasoning 
Cajun seasoning
The options are up to you! 
Nutrition
Calories: 110kcal | Carbohydrates: 5g | Protein: 11g | Fat: 6g | Saturated Fat: 1g | Sodium: 416mg | Potassium: 20mg | Fiber: 1g | Sugar: 1g | Vitamin A: 246IU | Calcium: 142mg | Iron: 1mg
How to Make Crispy Air Fryer Tofu https://jessicainthekitchen.com/how-to-make-crispy-air-fryer-tofu/ February 17, 2021