Easy Crockpot Jambalaya Recipe
https://www.iheartnaptime.net/wprm_print/easy-crockpot-jambalaya-recipe
Author: Jamielyn Nye



Ingredients 
1 pound Andouille sausage , cut into 1/4-inch thick slices
1 pound boneless, skinless chicken breasts , cut into 1-inch pieces
1 white onion , chopped
2 stalks celery , chopped
2 green bell peppers , seeded and chopped
3 cloves garlic , diced
1 (28-ounce) can diced tomatoes , undrained
¾ cup chicken broth
2 teaspoons Creole seasoning (see note)
2 teaspoons dried oregano
¼ teaspoon Kosher salt

Add after cooking
1 pound large shrimp , peeled and deveined (tails removed optional)
2 cups long-grain rice
3 ½ cups water , for cooking rice separate
Chopped fresh parsley , for serving (optional)

Instructions
In a crockpot, stir together the:
	 sausage,
	 chicken,
	 onion,
	 celery,
	 bell peppers,
	 garlic,
	 tomatoes,
	 broth,
	 Creole seasoning,
	 oregano,
	 salt.
Cook on low 7 to 8 hours or on high 3 to 4 hours, or until the veggies are tender and the chicken is cooked through. Add the shrimp during the last 30 minutes of cooking time.

Cook the rice 20 minutes before serving. In a medium pot with a lid, bring water to a boil over medium-high heat. Add the rice and stir once. Cover and turn the heat to low. Simmer 18 to 20 minutes. Do not remove the lid while it’s cooking. Remove lid and fluff rice with a fork.

Stir the rice into jambalaya. Allow to sit for 5 minutes to absorb any extra liquid (you can drain any extra after the 5 minutes or add more if needed). Season to taste and sprinkle with parsley, if using, to serve.

Notes
Shrimp: You can use fresh or frozen, but thaw the shrimp first if using frozen before adding to the crockpot. It is traditional to serve the shrimp with the tails on, but you can remove them before cooking, if you'd prefer. 

Sausage: Andouille is traditional, but can be a bit spicy for some. Use a smoked sausage instead if you'd like to turn down the heat.

Creole seasoning: If you want to make your own, grind together:
2 Tablespoons paprika
1 Tablespoon dried oregano
2 teaspoons garlic powder
2 teaspoons onion powder
2 teaspoons dried basil
1 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon pepper
1 teaspoon cayenne pepper (optional)
Storage: Leftovers can be stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator up to 3 days. 