EASY HOMEMADE FRENCH BREAD
BASED ON: HTTPS://WWW.MELSKITCHENCAFE.COM/FRENCH-BREAD/

YIELD: 2 LOAVES PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES COOK TIME: 25 MINUTES ADDITIONAL TIME: 2 HOURS 30 MINUTES TOTAL TIME: 3 HOURS 5 MINUTES

INGREDIENTS
 2 1/4 cups warm water
 2 tablespoons sugar
 1 tablespoon instant or active dry yeast
 1 tablespoon salt (see note)
 2 tablespoons olive oil, canola oil, vegetable oil or avocado oil
 5 1/2 - 6 cups all-purpose flour or bread flour (see note)

INSTRUCTIONS

BLOOM THE YEAST: Water/Sugar/Yeast

ADD DRY:
    Add the salt, oil and 3 cups of flour and mix.
 
    Add in 2 1/2 to 3 more cups of flour gradually. The dough should clear the sides of the bowl and form a soft ball that doesn't leave a lot of dough residue on your fingers. Knead for 2-3 minutes until the dough is smooth.
    If the dough starts to cling to the sides of the bowl (or the center column if using a Bosch or other mixer with a center), add 1/4 cup of flour at a time until a sturdy but soft ball of dough forms.

PROOF 1:
    Instead of letting the dough rest for 10 minute spurts and then stirring it down, transfer the dough to a lightly greased bowl and cover with a towel or greased plastic wrap. Let the dough rise until doubled, about an hour or so, depending on the warmth of your kitchen.


DIVIDE:
    Turn the dough onto a lightly greased surface and divide in half. Pat each section into a thick rectangle, 9X13-inches or thereabouts (doesn't have to be exact). Roll the dough up starting from the long edge, pressing out any air bubbles or seams with the heel of your hand, and pinch the edge to seal. Arrange seam side down on a large baking sheet lined with parchment paper (I use separate baking sheets for each loaf). You can slash several gashes in the top of the bread now or wait until after it has risen (to avoid the risk of the bread deflating, especially if you don't have a very sharp razor or knife, slash now - see pictures above in the post for a visual).

PROOF 2:
    Cover with greased plastic wrap or a kitchen towel, and let the loaves rise until noticeably puffy and nearly doubled in size, about an hour.

PREHEAT:
    Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F and make sure an oven rack is in the center position. 

SCORE:
     If you haven't already, with a very sharp knife or baker's lame cut several gashes at an angle on the top of each loaf

BAKE/ICE:
     Place the baking sheet in the hot oven and immediately toss 3-4 ice cubes on the bottom of the oven (this gives a delicious, classic, French bread crispness to the crust). Close the oven door quickly.
    Bake for 25-30 minutes until golden and baked through.
     Repeat with the 2nd loaf (or if you have convection setting, the loaves can bake at the same time, just rotate the baking sheets halfway through baking).
    
REMOVE AND SLATHER:
     Remove from the oven and slather with melted butter (optional, but delicious). 

