Glazed Chipotle Meatloaf Recipe
https://www.thechunkychef.com/wprm_print/glazed-chipotle-meatloaf-recipe

Not your average meatloaf recipe, this glazed chipotle meatloaf is packed with bold flavors like chipotle peppers, pepper jack cheese, chili powder and cumin!
Prep Time
15minutes mins
Cook Time
1hour hr
Total Time
1hour hr 15minutes mins

Course: Entree, Main CourseCuisine: American Servings: 4 - 6 servings Calories: 513kcal

Ingredients
1 medium yellow onion, diced
1 Tbsp butter
2-3 cloves garlic, minced
3/4 cup finely diced bread slices
1/4 cup milk
2 lbs ground beef (I use ground chuck 80/20 or 85/15)
2/3 cup shredded pepper jack cheese
2 Tbsp fresh cilantro, minced
2-3 chipotle peppers in adobo sauce, minced
2 tsp chili powder
1 tsp ground cumin
1 tsp kosher salt
1/2 tsp black pepper
1 large egg, lightly beaten

CHIPOTLE KETCHUP SAUCE:
1/2 cup ketchup
2-3 Tbsp adobo sauce from the can of chipotle peppers
2 -3 Tbsp light brown sugar, packed

Instructions
Preheat oven to 350 F degrees.  Add butter to small skillet and melt over MED heat.  Add onion and cook 4-5 minutes, until soft and slightly browned on the edges, stirring occasionally.  Add garlic and cook 1 minute.  Set aside to cool slightly.

Add diced bread pieces and milk to a large mixing bowl and stir to combine. Add beef, cheese, cilantro, minced chipotle peppers, chili powder, cumin, salt, pepper, beaten egg and cooked onion mixture.  

Mix together until just combined.

Lightly spray a meatloaf pan with nonstick cooking spray.  Pat meatloaf into prepared pan.

Combine sauce ingredients in small bowl.  Slather about half the sauce on the top of meatloaf, and bake for 60-90 minutes, until meatloaf is about 150-155 F degrees.  Let stand 10 minutes before serving.  Use the remaining half of the sauce to spoon over the top or dip the meatloaf in as you eat :)

SLOW COOKER INSTRUCTIONS:
Complete steps 1-2 as written above.  Line a 4 quart or larger slow cooker with aluminum foil or parchment paper with holes poked into it every 1-2 inches (to drain the grease after cooking).  Shape meatloaf into a loaf shape and place on foil/parchment paper. 
 
Top with half the sauce, cover and cook on LOW for 4-5 hours, until meatloaf is 150-155 F degrees.  Carefully lift meatloaf out of slow cooker, letting grease drain through the holes.  If desired, place on baking sheet and broil a few minutes, until sauce is sticky.  Let stand 10 minutes before serving.