Cheese Swirled Pumpkin Pie

Preheat oven to 450°F
Frozen Pie shell in a tin – defrosted for recipe
4oz (half) of a 8oz pkg. of cream cheese softened
½ cup of honey
1 tsp of vanilla (preferably Mexican vanilla)
2 eggs
1 cup of canned pumpkin (check can some companies use other vegetables not pumpkin)
½ cup of evaporated milk
¼ cup of sugar or less if using stevia
1 tsp of cinnamon
½ tsp of salt
¼ tsp of nutmeg, ground ginger, and ground cloves
1. Bake pie shell for 10+ minutes – check for doneness – remove foil and bake another 3+ minutes until set
and dry
2. Reduce oven to 325°F
Filling:
3. In a medium bowl beat cream cheese with a mixer until fluffy,
add ¼ cup of honey, and 1 tsp of vanilla.
4. In an additional bowl, beat eggs lightly with the remaining ¼ cup of honey until smooth, add cinnamon,
salt, and remaining spices and ingredients. Drop cream cheese in small spoon mounds stir in a swirling
motion creating a marbled effect – just a little – not too much.
5. Place baked pie shell on a metal baking sheet and add all of the ingredients.
6. Bake for 45 minutes until set, cool on a wire rack, cover, and chill 2-24 hours. Cover before serving.

Pecan Pie

Preheat oven to 350°F
Frozen Pie shell in a tin – defrosted for recipe
1 cup of dark brown sugar
¼ cup of rum
½ tsp salt
1 cup light corn syrup
1/3 cup melted salted butter
1 tsp of vanilla (preferably Mexican vanilla)
3 large eggs
1 cup of chopped pecans
4-6 halved pecans for decoration on top of pie
Filling:
1. Mix the sugar, rum, salt, corn syrup, butter, vanilla, and eggs together in a bowl.
2. Lightly place holes around the bottom of the pie pan with a fork, pour in the chopped pecans – evenly
distribute, add the syrup mixture. Cover the top gently with foil.
Bake for 30 minutes, remove foil, add the 4-6 pecan halves on the top, and continue baking for 20 minutes – check
frequently to prevent burning of the pecans or crust. Remove pie and check to see for doneness. Pie contents
should be softly firm not “jiggly” – the syrup mixture moves easily and may appear separate from the pecans –
recover it and bake for an additional 15 minutes. Baking time varies depending on the type/age of the oven. It
may take multiple 15 minute baking intervals to firm the syrup mixture with the pecans.
Allow to cool completely for several hours or refrigerate. Depending on the diner’s choice - top with
whipped cream or vanilla ice cream to serve.