Mathanga Erissery | Pumpkin Erissery Recipe

https://www.vegrecipesofindia.com/pumpkin-erissery-onam-sadya-recipe/
https://www.youtube.com/shorts/KtUCAkii7U0

Pumpkin Erissery is a mild and tempered curry with light sweet tones made with pumpkin, cowpeas and coconut. A Kerala traditional dish served during onam sadya.


Ingredients

For cooking pumpkin
200 to 250 grams pumpkin (kaddu) - approximate 1.5 to 2 cups peeled and chopped pumpkin cubes
¼ teaspoon turmeric powder
¼ teaspoon red chili powder - optional
salt as required
1 cup water or as needed

For cooking black eyed peas
½ cup black eyed peas - (white cowpeas) or red cowpeas
2 to 2.5 cups water or as needed
For the coconut paste
¾ cup fresh grated coconut - fresh or frozen
½ teaspoon cumin seeds
1 green chili or 1 teaspoon, chopped
½ cup water or as required

For tempering
1 or 1.5 tablespoon coconut oil or any vegetable oil
½ teaspoon mustard seeds
12 to 15 curry leaves
1 to 2 dry red chilies - kept whole or broken and deseeded
2 to 3 tablespoons fresh grated coconut - fresh or frozen

Instructions

Preparation

Rinse the cowpeas or black eyed beans very well in water a few times.

Pressure cook them with 2 or 2.5 cups water with a bit of salt on medium heat for 7 to 9 whistles or more until they are cooked completely and softened. Drain and keep aside.

For a quick cooking of the black eyed peas, soak them in water for one to two hours.

Let the pressure drop on its own in the cooker and then only open the lid. Drain all the water using a strainer and keep the cooked black eyed peas aside.

Rinse the pumpkin, peel and chop into bite sized cubes.

Making mathanga erissery

Take the pumpkin cubes and 1 cup water in a saucepan or medium-sized pot.

Add turmeric powder, red chili powder and salt.

Cover the pan and cook the pumpkin for 12 to 15 minutes or more on a low heat till they are softened.

Check the pumpkin a few times when they are cooking, to see if the water has not dried up.

If the water dries up, then add some more water and continue to cook.

Switch off the heat once the pumpkins are tender.

While the pumpkins are cooking, take the grated coconut, green chilli and cumin in a grinder jar.
Add ½ cup water and grind to a smooth and fine paste.

Add this coconut paste to the cooked pumpkins in the pan. Also add the cooked black eyed peas.
Add ½ cup water or more if the consistency looks very thick. The consistency is thick to slightly thick.

Stir well and place the pan on the stovetop and simmer for 10 to 12 minutes or more till the flavors are well blended.
If the curry becomes very thick, add some more water.
The consistency of the curry is thick to slightly thick, so adjust the amount of water according to your preferences.
When done cover with a lid and keep aside.

Making tempering
In a small pan, heat coconut oil. crackle the mustard seeds first.
Then add the curry leaves and the red chilies.
Fry till the curry leaves start to become crisp and the color of the red chilies change.
Add the grated coconut and sauté till the coconut becomes golden.
The fresh coconut gratings absorb all the oil.
So keep on stirring and sauté on a low heat, so that the coconut does not get burnt and there is even browning.
Pour this whole tempering mixture into the Mathanga Erissery.
Stir and serve Pumpkin Erissery hot or warm with some steamed rice or sambar.

Notes
This recipe can also be made with the green skinned pumpkins. 
Both red cowpeas and white cowpeas or black eyed peas work well in the recipe. Depending on the quality and size of the cowpeas, increase or reduce the cooking time. 
Cook the cowpeas until tender and softened. Do not overcook them as they end up become pasty and mushy. 
If out of fresh coconut, use unsweetened desiccated coconut or dried shredded coconut instead. But keep in mind that the taste will be different with desiccated coconut. 
Instead of green chilli, you could also add about ¼ to ½ teaspoon of black peppercorns while making the coconut paste.
You can easily scale up the recipe to make for the Onam feast.

Nutrition
Calories: 302kcal | Carbohydrates: 27g | Protein: 8g | Fat: 20g | Saturated Fat: 17g | Polyunsaturated Fat: 1g | Monounsaturated Fat: 1g | Sodium: 465mg | Potassium: 640mg | Fiber: 6g | Sugar: 6g | Vitamin A: 5938IU | Vitamin B1 (Thiamine): 0.3mg | Vitamin B2 (Riboflavin): 0.1mg | Vitamin B3 (Niacin): 47mg | Vitamin B6: 0.2mg | Vitamin C: 89mg | Vitamin E: 1mg | Vitamin K: 3µg | Calcium: 78mg | Vitamin B9 (Folate): 664µg | Iron: 4mg | Magnesium: 74mg | Phosphorus: 182mg | Zinc: 2mg