Turkey Gravy
From: https://www.foodnetwork.com/recipes/food-network-kitchen/classic-turkey-gravy-recipe-1973898


Ingredients:
2 tablespoons unsalted butter
1 medium onion or leek, or 2 shallots, sliced
Neck and giblets from your turkey (discard the
liver)
8 cups low-sodium chicken broth
3 sprigs thyme, parsley, rosemary and/or sage
1 bay leaf
Turkey drippings from your roasting pan
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
Dash of Worcestershire sauce
Kosher salt and freshly ground pepper
2 tablespoons Butter

Instructions:

When your turkey goes into the oven,
start the broth: Melt the butter in a
large saucepan over medium-low heat. Add
the onion and turkey neck and giblets;
cook, stirring, until the giblets are browned,
about 15 minutes. Add the chicken broth,
herb sprigs and bay leaf; cover and simmer
while the turkey roasts, about 2 hours.


Strain the broth and keep warm; reserve
the neck and giblets, if desired.
When your turkey is done, transfer it to
a cutting board and pour all the pan
drippings into a degreasing cup. Add 1/2
cup of the prepared broth to the roasting
pan and scrape up the browned bits with a
wooden spoon. (If the bits are stuck, put
the pan over a low burner to loosen them.)
Add the bits and liquid to the degreasing
cup.

Let the fat rise to the top of the
degreasing cup, then spoon off 1/2
cup fat and transfer to a large saucepan
over medium heat. Make a roux: Sprinkle
the flour into the pan and cook, stirring
constantly with a wooden spoon, until the
flour browns slightly, about 4 minutes.

Gradually add the hot broth to the
roux, whisking constantly to prevent
lumps. Bring to a boil, then reduce the heat
to medium low. Pour the dark roasting
juices from the degreasing cup into the
gravy, discarding any remaining fat. If
desired, chop the giblets and shred the
neck meat; add to the gravy. Simmer,
whisking occasionally, until the gravy
thickens, about 10 minutes. Add the
Worcestershire sauce and season with salt
and pepper. Stir in the flavored butter, if
desired.
