Homemade Vegetarian Chili

Author: Cookie and Kate 
https://cookieandkate.com/vegetarian-chili-recipe/print/23997/?scale=2

INGREDIENTS
4 tablespoon extra-virgin olive oil
2 medium red onion, chopped
2 large red bell pepper, chopped
4 medium carrots, chopped
4 ribs celery, chopped
1 teaspoon salt, divided
8 cloves garlic, pressed or minced
4 tablespoon chili powder*
4 teaspoon ground cumin
3 teaspoon smoked paprika*
2 teaspoon dried oregano
2 large can (56 ounce) or 2 small cans (30 ounce each) diced tomatoes**, with their juices
4 cans (15 ounces each) black beans, rinsed and drained
2 can (15 ounces) pinto beans, rinsed and drained
4 cup vegetable broth or water
2 bay leaf

INSTRUCTIONS
1. In a large Dutch oven or heavy-bottomed pot over medium heat, warm the olive oil until shimmering.
Add the chopped onion, bell pepper, carrot, celery and 1/4 teaspoon of the salt. Stir to combine and
cook, stirring occasionally, until the vegetables are tender and the onion is translucent, about 7 to 10
minutes.

2. Add the garlic, chili powder, cumin, smoked paprika and oregano. Cook until fragrant while stirring
constantly, about 1 minute.

3. Add the diced tomatoes and their juices, the drained black beans and pinto beans, vegetable broth and
bay leaf. Stir to combine and let the mixture come to a simmer. Continue cooking, stirring occasionally
and reducing heat as necessary to maintain a gentle simmer, for 30 minutes.

4. Remove the chili from the heat and discard the bay leaf. For the best texture and flavor, transfer 1 1/2
cups of the chili to a blender, making sure to get some of the liquid portion. Securely fasten the lid and
blend until smooth (watch out for hot steam), then pour the blended mixture back into the pot. (Or,
you can blend the chili briefly with an immersion blender, or mash the chili with a potato masher until
it reaches a thicker, more chili-like consistency.)

5. Add the chopped cilantro, stir to combine, and then mix in the vinegar, to taste. Add salt to taste, too—I
added 1/4 teaspoon more at this point. Divide the mixture into individual bowls and serve with
garnishes of your choice. This chili will keep well in the refrigerator for about 4 days or you can freeze it
for longer-term storage.
